{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw16840\paperh11900\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17600\viewh12680\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li8\ri4940\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 TRIN\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
I\kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-6
T\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Y\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
 C\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-5
O\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
L\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
L\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 EGE\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-3
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
DU\kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-6
B\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 LIN
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li424\ri5078\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 INFORMAT\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
I\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
O\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 N\kerning1\expnd-8\expndtw-40
  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 S\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-3
H\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 EET \kerning1\expnd-8\expndtw-39
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
F\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-5
O\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 R\kerning1\expnd-9\expndtw-42
  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
P\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
R\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-5
O\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 S\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
P\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw5
E\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 CTIVE\kerning1\expnd-8\expndtw-38
  \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
P\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
A\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 RTICIPANTS
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-260\sb18\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-260\sb18\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Aims of the appFirewall study\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-260\sb18\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 You are invited to participate in this study which aims to catalogue the network connections made by macOS applications.    By collecting data on the connections made by applications the study aims to highlight potential privacy issues (e.g. undocumented connections to known trackers), improve user security by obtaining baseline data on normal application behaviour, and to improve our understanding of the app ecosystem.\
\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Who is doing the experiment\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 This study is being carried out by the research group of Prof Douglas Leith in the School of Computer Science and Statistics at Trinity College Dublin.\
\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Participants\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 We are seeking participants who use a macOS computer and are over 18 years of age.\
\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sb1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Data collected\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-289\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 We collect no personal data in this study and we have no way to link the data collected to you or the instance of the project app that you run.   On first startup our app records basic security settings (is System Integrity Protection enabled, Filevault enabled, Gatekeeper settings, Apple\'92s Application Firewall settings as well as the OS version).  It then periodically (roughly monthly) chooses one application at random and uploads the connections logged for that application to the project server.   Browser apps (Chrome, Firefox, Safari etc) are excluded from this sampling since the list of connections may contain personal data or be otherwise revealing.  There is no identifier linking this sample to the particular instance of the app being used and no logging by the project server of the network connections made to upload samples.  The app stores a copy of all uploaded data in the ~/Library/Application Support/samples folder on your computer so that you can see what data has been shared.  The app menu contains a link that opens this folder in Finder so that it is easy to inspect.   The source code of the app is also available for you to inspect at https://github.com/doug-leith/appFirewall.\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-289\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Time involved\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-289\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 The study involves only a small time commitment on your part, namely that needed to install the project app (i.e. downloading the app and dragging to the /Applications folder).   \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sb1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-293\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Antici\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
pa\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ted\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
r\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 isks/be\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
n\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
e\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
f\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 i\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw5
t\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 s to the\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 p\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 rtici\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
p\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 nt\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sb1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 We do not anticipate any risks to you from participating in the study.  The project app also acts as an application firewall, allowing you to observe and allow/block the network connections being made from your computer.  We hope that this will be useful to you.\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5035\sb3\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5035\sb3\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Participation and withdrawal is entirely voluntary\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5035\sb3\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Your participation is entirely voluntary, and you can withdraw at any time by uninstalling the project app.  Note that as there is no way for us (or anyone else) to link collected data to individual participants there is no way for us to delete data of yours once it has been uploaded to the project server.\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5228\sb3\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-293\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
Accessing study results\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-293\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Study results will be made publicly available on the project web site.   \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-293\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5058\sl-274\sb28\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 P\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
r\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
e\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 s\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
erv\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
ing \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 no\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw7
n\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-5
y\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 mi\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw5
t\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 y\kerning1\expnd-3\expndtw-15
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 in\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 n\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
a\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw7
l\kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-10
y\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 sis, publ\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
i\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
ca\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tion \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 nd p\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
re\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 s\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
e\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ntation of\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
d\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ta\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
a\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 nd\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 fin\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
d\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 i\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
n\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-5
g\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 s\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5035\sb1\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 The data collected will be analysed in order to uncover potential privacy issues, improve user security, and to improve our understanding of the app ecosystem.  We plan to publish the results of our research in academic journals and conference proceedings.  In order to facilitate study of the app ecosystem it is expected that parts of the data may also be shared with other academic researchers for purposes aligned with the project aims.  The data collected by us is anonymised and cannot be linked to you personally, and we will take care to maintain this anonymity when publishing results.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-140\sb2\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-293\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
P\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
otential \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
c\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 onfli\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
c\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ts\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw3
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 of\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 int\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
er\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-4
e\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 st\
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-293\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 This study forms part of the research work of the project team and is supported by Science Foundation Ireland grant 16/IA/4610.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-200\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Our contact details \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 If you have any queries, feel free to contact Prof Doug Leith at doug.leith@tcd.ie, and we will be happy to answer questions about the study.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \page \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 TRINITY COLLEGE DUBLIN\
INFORMED CONSENT FORM\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
LEAD  RESEARCHER: Douglas Leith\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-260\sb18\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BACKGROUND OF RESEARCH: This study aims to catalogue the network connections made by macOS applications.    By collecting data on the connections made by applications the study aims to highlight potential privacy issues (e.g. undocumented connections to known trackers), improve user security by obtaining baseline data on normal application behaviour, and to improve our understanding of the app ecosystem.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri4940\sl-289\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PROCEDURES OF THIS STUDY:  The study involves installation and running of the project app on your computer.  On first startup the app records basic security settings.  Periodically (roughly monthly) the app then chooses one application at random and uploads the connections logged for that application to the project server.   Browser apps (Chrome, Firefox, Safari etc) are excluded from this sampling.  No personal data is collected and there is no identifier linking this sample to the particular instance of the app being used and no logging by the project server of the network connections made to upload samples.  The app stores a copy of all uploaded data in the ~/Library/Application Support/samples folder so that you can see what data has been shared.  The app menu contains a link that opens this folder in Finder so that it is easy to inspect.     \
\
You can withdraw from the study at any time by uninstalling the project app.  Note however that since there is no way for us (or anyone else) to link collected data to individual participants there is no way for us to delete data of yours collected prior to withdrawal.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx820\pardeftab720\ri5035\sb1\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 PUBLICATION: Study results will be published in academic journals and conference proceedings and also made publicly available on the web.    All data collected is anonymised and we will take care to maintain this anonymity when publishing results.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
DECLARATION:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri4940\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs22 \cf0 \'95	I am 18 years or older and am competent to provide consent.\
\'95	I have read, or had read to me, a document providing information about this research and this consent form. \
\'95	I agree that my data is used for scientific purposes and I have no objection that my data is published in scientific publications in a way that does not reveal my identity.\
\'95	I understand that I may withdraw from the study at any time without penalty.\
\'95	I understand that the data collected in the study is fully anonymised so that it cannot be attributed to me and that no personal details about me will be recorded.  Since we cannot link data to you, there is no way for us to delete your data once it has been uploaded to the project server.\
\'95	I freely and voluntarily agree to be part of this research study, though without prejudice to my legal and ethical rights.\
\'95	I have received a copy of this agreement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri4940\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri4940\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 By clicking agree I consent to participate in this study, and consent to the data processing necessary to enable my participation and to achieve the research goals of this study. 
\f0\b \
}